Okay, so if you got an access to the repo,
you should see here there are some basic
prerequisites that I wanna make
sure you have in your environment.
Basically, you should have Git,
the latest version of Node and
most importantly, if using VS Code,
the two VS Code extensions you wanna use
are Volar and the TypeScript plugin Vue.
So this is the Volar extension,
and then the other one here,
technically could be optional, but I just
wanna make sure people install it and
enable it just to make sure
everything's working correctly.
This is how you'll get a lot of your
autocomplete, error checking and
all that stuff.
So these are really critical.
Without these it'll kind of be tricky.
In addition,
if you haven't downloaded already,
the Vue dev tools that can be
a useful tool for you as well
as when you're working with the
application that we'll be building today.
So you can find that basically
under the Chrome extension store.
As far as starting a new project with
Vue and TypeScript, most of us, for
who have done view before
are familiar with the Vue CLI.
And basically the CLI tool to help us
discuss our projects together, but
the important thing that I wanted to
highlight is that Vue CLI is now in
maintenance mode.
Because it was using Webpack and for
those that don't know Vue js is kind of
the new next generation build tool that
a lot of ecosystems are buying into.
And so this is one of the reasons Vue CLI
is being deprecated is because we're
moving basically, revamping
the architecture that powered Vue CLI with
Vite so that you can get all
the latest and greatest with that.
And so when you're starting a new project,
you'll see that inside of Vite there is
definitely a way for you to just use the
CLI here to just create a Vite project and
then just scaffold it with Vue and
TypeScript and it does everything for you.
But in case you didn't know, we actually
have another CLI that's basically
going to be the successor to the Vue CLI,
and that is Create Vue.
So Create Vue basically works as you would
expect, where you initialize a new Vue
project it'll go through,
ask you to start up a couple of things,
as you can see it'll ask you whether or
not you want TypeScript, JSX support,
whether you want Vue Router,
Pinia all those things.
And so the project we'll be working on
today is based on a scaffold that is built
with the Create Vue CLI.
So just know,
if you ever starting a new one,
this is kind of where it's recommended for
you to keep an eye on.
All right, so let's go ahead and
open up the project.
So if you go ahead and clone the repo,
this is basically what you
should be seeing inside of here.
You'll see that there's the basic readme
in here where we'll go and update when we
have bookmarks for the different
branches as we go to the workshop.
But then the main thing here is
what we have inside of the app and
that's what we'll be working with today.
As you can see here, this is
basically your standard vue project.
And in fact, most of the client frameworks
look like this now where you have your
source directory with comes with
all your assets, components,
you'll see that I already have
Vue Router and Pinia installed already.
So that's why you see the router folder
and the source as well as the views which
represent the different pages
that we'll be moving towards.
Otherwise a couple things that you might
notice that's a little bit different is
that you'll notice that all the files
in here already labeled TypeScript.
And so one of my recommendations when
starting a new project, even if you're not
intending on using TypeScript, is to
just set it up with TypeScript anyways.
And the reason I recommend that is
because this is just one less thing you
have to worry about later on, because
there's a magical configuration that I've
already set up in here, which is that
inside of your compiler options,
if you set it to allow JS true, it'll
basically allow you to write JavaScript as
you would even inside of so
called TypeScript files.
So you'll see inside of here
if we look at the constants.
This is the constants file,
it is technically a TypeScript file, but
if you see everything in
here standard JavaScript.
And that's what I recommend on most Vue
projects because after all at the end of
the day we wanna teach people how to
progressively migrate towards TypeScript,
and this is the best
balance between the two.
Because anyone who's done tried to do
a migration before is a lot to get
the compiler working with all
the build tools and everything.
So that's why I say getting started, just
go ahead and opt into it, you can opt out
with the tsconfig and then you can slowly
kind of sprinkle it in as we go and
that's exactly what we'll be
doing inside of this workshop.
Let's run through the project as far
as what we'll be working with today.
So let me go ahead and
open this up and then refresh.
All right.
So the project we'll be working
on today is called ToEat.
And so it's kind of a play on the to
do MVC, where instead of tracking all
the things you wanna do, this is the track
all the things that you want to eat.
And so there's, this is a standard
homepage here with a little bit of a hero.
And then you can go through, we see all
the restaurants that we wanna try and
then you'll see some basic
properties that we have,
we'll be able to create
a new restaurant if we want.
And then we'll also be able to like so
we can filter here for example.
And then there are dishes that we wanna
track as far as like maybe something we
wanna cook or maybe you wanna track
specific dishes with restaurants.
We have a lot of opportunity for
playing creativity here.
And so that's something I wanna really
encourage when it comes to working on
exercises today, is that I'll give you
some basic guidance on the things rule
like main objectives that
you wanna accomplish but
the key thing here is to make
sure that you go ahead and
have fun with this because that's
where a lot of the learning happens.
And so if you find ways to like play
around, create custom types or whatnot,
I encourage you to do that.
In the meantime before we move on,
let me go ahead and
actually show you one more
extension that I highly recommend.
And that is Text Pastry.
So if you haven't heard of this
one before, or yep, Text Pastry.
It's a really nifty plugin because one of
the things I found when I'm working with,
playing around with data
is you want a custom ID.
And so normally we just randomly generate
like, we just put 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
But here, for example, we say like const,
again, let's do a todo list real quick.
What we can do really easily is,
let's say, go ahead and
just duplicate this a couple times.
[SOUND] Okay, here we go.
We have three items, right?
So what I can do is if I put my cursor 1,
2, 3 and I type id,
I can use Text Pastry to actually
where's it, insert a custom uuid.
And so that's like a nice little way for
you to basically create some scaffold data
with an actual uuid rather than
accidentally creating a fake id that's
trapped in your Vue key later,
that screws up animation.
Text Pastry is really cool, it does
some other cool things as well actually,
just let me show you one other thing, is
that if you ever need to track anything so
like a multiline thing.
So all you got to do is you
can select multiple lines and
then Text Pastry can actually
do counts from like zero to one.
And so little things like that ABC.
So little hidden nugget to
workflow efficiency, but
highly [LAUGH] recommended for
those of you don't have it already.